>> Melkey: Okay, let's go ahead and
open up some code.
So you can see if you open up main.go,
you're already greeted by the compiler,
it's already mad at you.
You haven't written anything and
the compiler is yelling at you.
Go's compiler is very opinionated,
it's gonna yell at you a lot.
There's a bunch of different rules that
the compiler wants you to follow so
I can be happy, that Go can run.
And we'll see more of these as
we kind of write more code.
I'm not gonna list them right here,
we'll just see them as they come.
But one highlight that I
want to emphasize here is,
every Go project starts
with the same function.
If you go to any project on GitHub,
your company, whatever,
you look at a repository,
it could be like multiple different files,
thousands upon thousands of lines.
If you wanna see where
everything gets executed,
it's a function called func main, okay?
And it's going to exist
in a package called main.
So, because it's our main.go file,
we'll create our first
package called package main.
Just like this, oops, okay?
And package main,
when I talked about the Go module,
I said that you can define your
package to be whatever it is.
Package utils, package routing,
package middleware,
you have control of what
to call your package.
Accept the package main.
The compiler is going to look for
a package declared as main because we
wanna compile into an executable binary.
That's our goal, it's a compiled language.
So, there's a strict rule set
that the compiler needs to
know to execute and
create this binary in the first place.
So we have this package main.
We've addressed one core rule
that the compiler wants.
Next is the function.
So, I'm gonna quickly go over
how to write a function.
I'm gonna go in deep in detail
of it in just a little bit.
So it's func main, like so, okay?
So, func is the keyword for
go to declared function,
main is the name of the function,
parentheses's the arguments within.
There's a little gap right here where
it returns the type of where this
function returns, and then curly braces
to execute the logic of the function.
Here, func main has to
be defined like this.
The signature of func main and
every package main and
every Go project follows this pattern,
right?
This is not negotiable.
You can make other functions
called func not really main.
That could be whatever you want as
a signature, but as far as the compiler,
it needs to have a package main with a
func main here, exactly written like this.
So, the first thing I want us to
do is just make a hello world.
To do that, I'm gonna import the format
package from the standard library.
To import,
we're gonna use the keyword import.
I'm gonna open it up with parentheses.
And then here, to import a package,
we'll do quotation and then FMT.
You can see that the compiler's already
yelling at us, format import and not used.
The compiler, if you have unused imports,
will not compile,
another strict rule by the compiler.
To print hello world,
we can do format.print line, and if you
have everything except correctly, you
should see the hint of the function here.
We'll do print line and
we'll just say hello from the masters,
and we'll save this, all right?
Nothing too crazy,
we can open up another terminal, or
whatever it is you're comfortable with,
okay?
And to run this file,
we can do the command Go, run main.go.
Let me see, we have hello,
front end masters.
Nothing too groundbreaking, hello world,
of course we're gonna have it, right?
It is what it is, really.
And we've explained kind of
the logistics of the compiler.
One thing to note,
when we import packages,
packages can import other things
from other packages, right?
Of course, you can have cyclical imports,
that's kind of a no-brainer.
Your package main can import other
packages from your application,
no problem.
It cannot export, so other packages cannot
import anything from your package main.
Your package main brings everything in,
structures your project, and
it executes whatever is in
the func main here, all right?
So remember, it's not like a two-way door,
only in for the funk main, but not out.
Other packages, there's less restriction.
It's just a package main follows
this particular rule set, okay?
One more thing on the compiling aspect,
I wanna kinda cover this ASAP before
moving forward with anything.
Right now we're running this,
we just do go run main.go again and
it just runs whatever we
have in our func main.
If you want this to be
compiled into a binary,
which is something you would typically
see in like a pipeline, right?
A project pipeline that it gets deployed,
you get your Go code, it lints it,
checks it out, compiles it,
deploys it, sweet.
The command to do that is, and again, this
is a very simple version of the command
without specifying operating systems or
anything like that.
But we do go build-o,
then the name of the executable file,
we'll just call it main, and
then where it's from, so main.go.
If you run this, you can see
now we have this new file main,
which we then can run like, so
you can see hello, front end masters.
So yeah, if this is someone's first
interaction with making a binary file,
one thing I really want to
highlight is if we go back and
just changes hello to something like,
I changed this, right?
And we save this Go back and we use Go run
main.go, we'll see the reflection here.
If I just use the exaxing binary,
we'll get hello front end
masters because the binary
file will act as a snap shot of the code
at the time we use the built command.
So if we want to rerun it, we would Go
built, again we run the same command.
And now if you execute that binary file,
we'll have I change this.
So just something to be aware of, right?
When you're building, if you're kinda
scratching your head like, wait, wait,
why is my change still not working?
If maybe you skip the step in
bundling your app or zipping it up,
deploying it to whatever it is you
deploy on, that could be a thing.
So, just a little heads up.